---
layout: post
title: Badminton 101
date: 2016-02-13 20:53
category: misc
tags: badminton
scheme-text: "#f0221b"
scheme-link: "#0affc8"
scheme-hover: "#86190b"
scheme-code: "#39beb6"
scheme-bg: "#ff8500"
---

Badminton is a fun sport enjoyed by people all over the world. The objective is simple: to hit the shuttle with your racket so that it passes over the net and lands inside your opponent's half of the court. When this happens, you win a rally and get a point; get enough points and you win the match.

Your opponent has the same goal as you: he or she will try to reach the shuttle and hit it over the net into your half of the court. If your opponent makes a mistake and hits the shuttle into the net or out of bounds, you win the rally. If you make a mistake, your opponent wins the point.

---

There are many types of shots in badminton. The type of shot you can make depends on your position in the court, specifically your distance from the net.

 - Rear court
     - Clear:
     - Drop:
 - Mid-court
     - Drive:
     - Smash:
 - Net
     - Net shot:
     - Net kill:

There are two simple rules of thumb about making high quality shots:

1. Overhead forehand is better than overhead backhand.
    - Overhead forehand shots are generally favored over overhead backhand shots. It is easier to generate power with the forehand and it is generally easier to recover from playing a overhead forehand shot because overhead backhand shots require you to turn your body.
    - That's why many professional players can be seen playing around-the-head forehand shots, which they use to hit the shuttle when it is on their backhand side using their forehand.
2. Higher/sooner is better than lower/later.

<small>_in progress_</small>
